Stack Exchange Inbox Reputation and Badges sign up log in tour help

Search Q&A

Ask Different
Questions

Tags

Users

Badges

Unanswered

Ask Question
_ Ask Different is a question and answer site for power users of Apple hardware and software. Join them; it only takes a minute:

Sign up
Here's how it works:
Anybody can ask a question  Anybody can answer  The best answers are voted up and rise to the top
How to avoid the GUI password prompt when using `osascript`?

up vote
4
down vote
favorite
1
I’d like to use the osascript shell command to run some AppleScript, but I’d rather avoid the GUI password prompt. Instead, I’d prefer to run the script as sudo from the command-line, so no GUI popups/prompts are needed.

The command is the following:

osascript -e 'tell application "System Events" to set UI elements enabled to true'
Running this command has the same effect as going to System Preferences → Accessibility and checking Enable access for assistive devices.

If it doesn’t prompt for your password, try the opposite:

osascript -e 'tell application "System Events" to set UI elements enabled to false'
For either one of these commands you’ll get a password prompt in the OS X GUI:

Screenshot

My question is: is there any way to avoid this password prompt?

I assumed invoking osascript with sudo privileges would do the trick, but alas — even in that case the GUI prompt is shown. :(

sudo osascript -e 'tell application "System Events" to set UI elements enabled to true'
Is there a way around this?

password sudo applescript
shareimprove this question
edited Aug 12 '12 at 10:24
asked Aug 12 '12 at 10:15

Mathias Bynens
6,804104894
1
I don't know if was just an example, but you can also enable access for assistive devices with sudo touch /var/db/.AccessibilityAPIEnabled. – user495470 Aug 12 '12 at 14:56
1
@Lri echo -n 'a' | sudo tee /private/var/db/.AccessibilityAPIEnabled > /dev/null 2>&1; sudo chmod 444 /private/var/db/.AccessibilityAPIEnabled (as used here) more closely mimics what enabling the setting in System Preferences does, although it’s not instant (unlike going through SysPrefs manually). Any idea on which service to restart after this command? Anyhow, as you guessed, it was just an example. – Mathias Bynens Aug 12 '12 at 19:44
add a comment
1 Answer
active oldest votes
up vote
2
down vote
accepted
You can suppress the password interface by modifying your Mac's authorization rights.

Use the built-in security command line tool or authbuddy to change the system.preferences.accessibility right to allow:

sudo security authorizationdb write system.preferences.accessibility allow
Opening up the system.preferences.accessibility right will permit any user to change the accessibility settings without a password prompt.

shareimprove this answer
answered Dec 15 '13 at 13:50

Graham Miln
19.6k34973

Very cool trick — thanks! Unfortunately this poses a potential security risk, as now any apps could make such changes as well. – Mathias Bynens Dec 15 '13 at 18:47

Only authenticated administrators may alter authorization rights. allow is one of many possible rules to test against and other rules are available to choose from or to create. The security manual page shows how to apply alternatives. – Graham Miln Dec 15 '13 at 19:14

Yes, only authenticated administrators can run the above script (sudo) — but I meant that after that, all apps on the system are able to change accessibility settings at will. – Mathias Bynens Dec 15 '13 at 20:03
add a comment
Your Answer



Sign up or log in

Sign up using Google
Sign up using Facebook
Sign up using Email and Password

Post as a guest

Name

Email

required, but never shown
 Post Your Answer
By posting your answer, you agree to the privacy policy and terms of service.

Not the answer you're looking for?	Browse other questions tagged password sudo applescript or ask your own question.

asked

4 years, 11 months ago

viewed

5,055 times

active

3 years, 7 months ago

BLOG
Trends in Cloud Computing: Who Uses AWS, Who Uses Azure?
Related

12
How do I reset/recover my superuser password without the boot disk?
7
Passing a password to an Automator application
1
Can there be different passwords for the same account that prompts a certain reaction from Applescript?
0
Mac Reset Password Prompt/Script
0
In AppleScript when entering password, is a click required
7
Terminal becomes unresponsive when a “sudo” password prompt is displayed
2
How to avoid password prompt in terminal?
0
Applescript System Event prompts for admin password, when given does not operate correctly.
0
macOS: Start Ruby program using `sudo`, use password when calling `security` inside Ruby program
1
Require a Password When Woken From Sleep Only When Specifically Requested?
Hot Network Questions

Apply a wave to an array
Verify Topology
Why is std::allocator a template?
Dealing with PC that constantly lies to NPCs
Does a one-line email response from a job seeker show a lack of interest?
Boss is asking for passport, but it has a stamp in it I don't want him to see. What to do?
Why is there not any bullet wound in this character in Dark Knight Rises?
Difference between "uptown", "downtown" and "midtown"
Why can a regular infrared camera not show temperature (thermography)?
Continuity of mapping sending a function to its (brouwer) fixed point
Default Dashboard in Salesforce Wave Application
How can I remove the BOM from a UTF-8 file?
How to remove text after '-'?
What's wrong with swimming out far?
How can I increase focus when doing something boring?
Why are there so many applicants for PhD programs?
Why do Hydrogen and Lithium bond, but Hydrogen and Helium don't?
What is the point of being the head of the department?
Plural of English abbreviations in German?
Is it rude to drive at the speed limit on dangerous roads when another driver wants to go faster?
How would I tell my Father-In-Law that he's being too lenient in disciplining my brother-in-law?
Colleague shared pirated material. Is it appropriate for our manager to make me tell the colleague to remove it?
What is a continental breakfast and what other types of breakfasts are there?
Build me a castle Stairway!
question feed
about us
tour
help
blog
chat
data
legal
privacy policy
work here
advertising info
mobile
contact us
feedback
TECHNOLOGY	LIFE / ARTS	CULTURE / RECREATION	SCIENCE	OTHER
Stack Overflow
Server Fault
Super User
Web Applications
Ask Ubuntu
Webmasters
Game Development
TeX - LaTeX
Software Engineering
Unix & Linux
Ask Different (Apple)
WordPress Development
Geographic Information Systems
Electrical Engineering
Android Enthusiasts
Information Security
Database Administrators
Drupal Answers
SharePoint
User Experience
Mathematica
Salesforce
ExpressionEngine® Answers
Blender
Network Engineering
Cryptography
Code Review
Magento
Software Recommendations
Signal Processing
Emacs
Raspberry Pi
Programming Puzzles & Code Golf
Ethereum
Data Science
Arduino
more (26)
Photography
Science Fiction & Fantasy
Graphic Design
Movies & TV
Music: Practice & Theory
Worldbuilding
Seasoned Advice (cooking)
Home Improvement
Personal Finance & Money
Academia
Law
more (17)
English Language & Usage
Skeptics
Mi Yodeya (Judaism)
Travel
Christianity
English Language Learners
Japanese Language
Arqade (gaming)
Bicycles
Role-playing Games
Anime & Manga
Puzzling
Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair
more (32)
MathOverflow
Mathematics
Cross Validated (stats)
Theoretical Computer Science
Physics
Chemistry
Biology
Computer Science
Philosophy
more (10)
Meta Stack Exchange
Stack Apps
Area 51
Stack Overflow Talent
site design / logo © 2017 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under
cc by-sa 3.0
with
attribution required
rev 2017.7.21.26591
Apple is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the US and other countries. This site is not affiliated with or endorsed by Apple Inc. in any way.